---
title: Conditional Validation
description: This page unveils conditional validation in @nattyjs/tidy forms, validation rules adapt to user input for a flexible experience.
---

This page explores conditional validation techniques in forms using `@nattyjs/tidy`. Conditional validation allows you to dynamically adjust validation rules based on the user's input or form state, leading to more flexible and user-friendly forms.

## Understanding Conditional Validation

Here, we'll demonstrate how to make the "License Number" field mandatory only if the user's age is above 18.

## Implementing Conditional Validation

Here's how to implement conditional validation for the license number field in your form:

### 1. Define the Form Model:

Start by defining the model structure representing the data you want to collect:

::u-code
```javascript
const user = {
  age: '',
  licenseNumber: '',
};
```
::

### 2. Create the Form with Conditional Validation

Use `useForm` to create the form object and define validation rules. Here, we'll use a conditional validator for the `licenseNumber` field:

::u-code
```javascript
import { useForm, Validators } from "@nattyjs/tidy";

const userForm = useForm(user, {
  validators: {
    age: [Validators.required()],
    licenseNumber: Validators.required({
      conditionalExpression: (t) => t.age > 18, // Validate only if age is greater than 18
    }),
  },
});
```
::

* We define a custom validation rule for the `licenseNumber` field using `Validators.required` with a configuration object.
* The `conditionalExpression` property specifies a function that receives the current form values (`t`).
* Inside the function, we check if `t.age` (user's age) is greater than 18.
* If the condition is true, the `Validators.required` validation is applied, enforcing a required license number.
* If the condition is false (age is less than or equal to 18), the validation is skipped, allowing an empty license number.
### 3. Write HTML for Conditional Input Controls
   Integrate the form object into your template:

::code-group

```html [Form.vue]
<template>
  <div>
    <label for="age">Age:</label>
    <input type="number" id="age" v-model="userForm.age" />

    <label for="licenseNumber">License Number (if over 18):</label>
    <input type="text" id="licenseNumber" v-model="userForm.licenseNumber" />
    <span>{{ userForm.licenseNumber.errorMessage }}</span>
  </div>
</template>
```

```html [Form.svelte]
 <div>
  <input type="text" bind:value={userFrom.name} name="name" />
  <input type="text" bind:value={userFrom.email}  name="email" />
  <input type="text" bind:value={userFrom.age} name="age" />
</div>
```

::
* We use separate input fields for `age` and `licenseNumber`.
* The `licenseNumber` field has a label indicating it's required only for users above 18.
* The `errorMessage` property of the `licenseNumber` control displays validation messages.
