---
title: RelationalOperatorConfig 
description:  Configure validation based on relational operators (likely used with other configs), with optional field name, value, and flag for array control.
---
The `RelationalOperatorConfig` interface extends the [BaseValidatorConfig](/api-reference/base-validator-config) interface and provides configuration options for validation based on relational operators. However, it likely acts as a base configuration for more specific validation types and is typically used in conjunction with other validation interfaces

#### Inheritence
* Inherits all properties from [BaseValidatorConfig](/api-reference/base-validator-config).
#### Properties:
* `fieldName` (Optional): A string representing the name of the field associated with the validator. This can be used for dynamic error message construction (e.g., "The value of Field A must be less than Field B").
* `value` (Optional): The value to be used for comparison in the relational operation. The specific data type allowed for value depends on the library implementation and the intended use case (might be a number, string, or another data type).
* `isArrayControl` (Optional): A boolean flag indicating whether the validation is being applied to an array control within the form. This flag might be used by the library to adjust validation logic for arrays (library-specific).

Inherits all properties from [BaseValidatorConfig](/api-reference/base-validator-config) (e.g., `message`, `messageKey`, and potentially `conditionalExpression` depending on the library implementation).
